# women-computing
<p>Before the dawn of the 21st century women made up a large portion of the technological workforce. Women accounted for 30 to 50 percent of computer programmers and could earn over $150,000 doing the work. Most other white-collar professions did not admit many women, whereas computing seemed to actively seek out women, demonstrated by IBM’s 1957 recruitment brochure entitled ‘My Fair Ladies’, which encouraged women to apply for coding jobs. So why did this all change at the turn of the century? 
</p>
<p>Research suggests it was partly due to a change in how people learned to code. Previously, computers were expensive, often bulky instruments that most people didn’t have access to, meaning that most of the people enrolling in computer science classes or degrees were unable to do even basic coding. Once the first generation of personal computers were created more and more students were turning up to university confident in coding. The group of people that were more likely to have been bought computers and encouraged to ‘play around’ with them were white males. This meant that women (and often also men of colour) were already behind in terms of their coding knowledge and were also likely to be talked over and encounter sexist attitudes within the classroom - leading to less women engaging with computer science, both at universities and in terms of employment. In 1984 37.1 percent of computer science graduates were women and by 2010 that had more than halved.
</p>
<p><h2>"it really amazed me that these men were programmers, because I thought it was women’s work!”</h2>Elsie Shutt
</p>
<p>There was also a change in the culture of coding. In the early 80s, most coding was done by women, and yet films released that decade (e.g- <em>Revenge of the Nerds</em> and <em>Weird Science</em>), suggested that computer nerds were young white men. The early pioneering work of Grace Hopper or Mary Allen Wilkes, for example, had been forgotten. Furthermore the 90s and 2010s pushed in the idea of a ‘culture fit’, as companies started to screen for ‘loner’ tendencies, as they determined that being antisocial, neurotic, egocentric and slightly surly made for better computer programmers. Women were much less likely to have these qualities, cutting them out of jobs in coding.
</p>
<p>It seems ridiculous that more women worked in coding and computing in the 60s, a time that was less protective of women’s rights at work, than today, which many would suggest is more progressive. In 2017, 20 percent of Google’s technical employees were women, only 1 percent were black and 3 percent were hispanic. So how can the tech industry be more inclusive?
</p>
<p>Similarly, Digi-Gxl is a platform, founded by Catty Taylor, that promotes women, trans people, intersex and non binary digital designers in an industry dominated by men. They currently represent 250 creatives. Earlier this year Digi-Gxl partnered with The Institute of Coding to offer tech related workshops for women aged between 16 and 18, in order to get more girls excited about tech.
</p>
<p>There is a growing digital skills gap, and yet only 10% of A Level computer science candidates are girls. It is clear that the coding community needs to undergo a cultural change. In order for more girls to be interested in coding the tech industry needs to become more diverse - they need to see and be taught by women in computing. Although this is difficult, with the help of organisations and digital designers championing more women in coding, it seems more plausible. 
